[MUSIC]
>> Brian: So linked lists with arrays,
we just basically
were thinking them that we were
addressing individual spaces and memory.
The way that a linked list works,
where's my pen here, and I'll show you.
>> Brian: Okay, so say,
I have a list right now, and
I create the list and
it has nothing in it, okay?
And now I'm going to create a new one,
or I'm gonna add a new
element to my linked list.
And it's gonna be value one,
or a, let's do a.
I'm gonna create a new node,
>> Brian: I have to draw.
Okay, so I'm gonna create a new node.
>> Brian: Okay, and every node has
two pieces to it, it has the value.
So the value in this particular
case is going to be a.
>> Brian: And this is called next right
here,
>> Brian: Okay,
and next just right now, it's gonna point
at nothing because there is no next,
right, like that is the end of the list.
And then, the other thing is
because this is the first element,
this is also called the head.
>> Brian: Okay, so
now I'm gonna create another node,
cuz I'm gonna add b, so
I create another node.
>> Brian: This is gonna be b, and it has
a pointer that points at nothing, okay?
Then I'm gonna create another node,
>> Brian: At c,
right, and this, so
on and so forth, right?
So you have these nodes that just
keep pointing at the next one, right?
We're also gonna keep track of the tail.
So the first item in the list and the last
item in the list, we tend to point out,
you don't always have to point at tail.
However, it tends to be pretty useful
when you're trying to do things like pop,
right, because you can
just pop things off.
Or push, actually, in particular,
push, it's very useful for.
However, this ends up being kind
of difficult because let's say,
let's add one more on here.
>> Brian: So if I add one more,
this is now d.
And this tail no longer points at there.
Data points at this, right?
Let's say if I ask for element two,
index number two of this,
the third element in the array.
Well, I don't actually know where it
is in memory because I've given up that
abstraction.
Now what I have to do is I take the head,
and I have to follow next, right?
So, if I asked for index number,
I asked for the third one.
So if I'm asking for c in this particular
case, I have to go, I grab the head, and
I say okay, now I'm gonna loop over
until I've gone three places, and
then I know that's
the one I'm looking for.
So I'm gonna hop here, and
then I'm gonna hop here, and
then I know it's this one, right?
Now as you might imagine,
if I have a list of 10 million elements,
I have to hop 10 million times
to get towards the end, right?
So that's why gets, in this particular
case, are super duper expensive.
Now you might ask yourself,
this seems like a really dumb idea, right,
like why would you want to do this?
Well, there actually is
a really good purpose to this,
because now deletes are super cheap.
Let's talk about why
deletes are super cheap.
So, let's say I wanna delete c here,
so I ask for a delete.
What I'm gonna do is,
I'm gonna hop to this one, I find b, and
then I'm just gonna change its
next to just point over there.
So all I have to do is change one
pointer to point somewhere else and
it's already out of the list.
It doesn't matter that c is still
point here or anything like that.
I just stop referencing it,
it gets garbage collected and it's gone.
>> Speaker 2: Don't you
have to find c first?
>> Brian: You do have to find.
>> Speaker 2: I mean if you're
leaving the last item on the list,
you still gotta go through
them all [INAUDIBLE].
>> Brian: You do but
that is decidedly less expensive than
trying to shift everything to memory.
Because that's a really
expensive operation.
Doing a bunch of hops, it's annoying, like
you have to go through a bunch of things,
but it's really easy to just
follow a pointer, right.
That's a pretty cheap operation
even if it's a lot of it.
>> Speaker 2: Doesn't that contradict
what you said the weakness of this is,
finding the item in the middle?
>> Brian: It certainly is,
gets are [COUGH].
It does contradict it in the sense
of it's not instant, right?
It's not constant in terms of like
an array list, you just go grab it and
it's there, right?
Deletes in a number of cells
are just expensive operations, but
shifting everything over
memory is really expensive.
Finding something and then changing
the pointer is way less expensive.
So it's still somewhat expensive,
like there's still cost I guess
is what I'm trying to get at.
It's just lesser than trying
to shift everything in memory.
Does that answer your question?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Brian: Cool,
any other questions about linked lists?
Conceptually does it make
sense what's going on here?
Okay, so let's talk about push.
Push is really easy, especially
if you're keeping track of tail,
which by the way you don't have to,
it's just a convenience.
It just makes push super duper simple.
Cuz at push you just grab the tail and
you point the next at e, right?
And that's it, right?
Push becomes really easy.
However, pop becomes a little bit less
simple so you can do something, I've seen
people keep track of the penultimate tail
or the former tail or something like that.
I've heard it's called bunch a of things,
right?
Cuz this is kind of a mess,
let's get a new one here, so if I have,
>> Brian: a which points to b,
>> Brian: Which points to c.
>> Brian: Oop, good job.
>> Brian: Okay, so pop isn't quite so
simple because with pop,
basically you have to make the second
to last item point at nothing.
So you still have to go find to that and
then just point at null, right?
And not point at this.
But that's the idea behind pop is
you just point that at nothing and
that's now the tail is this, right.
>> Brian: And then head is this.
>> Brian: So
you have to keep track of head,
because that's how you keep
track of the whole list.
Right, that's you just have
to keep track of the head.
The tail is optional if you
wanna make push super easy.
We start introducing these special
pointers right, like the head, the tail,
the second to last tail
whatever you wanna call that.
It just makes a little bit tougher
because you have to provide for
Edge cases now, right?
So now when I delete something I have to
move my tail point whereas if I'm not
keeping track of tail,
it doesn't have to matter, right?
Or if I'm keeping track to the second
to last tail, what happens if I call,
cuz right now in this particular case,
if I call it ptail,
ptail would actually be the head, right?
And now if I delete it and
I have just a head, I have head and tail,
which are both this one, right.
And ptail, which is nothing
because there's no second to last.
Right, the second the last is a negative
one, right, which doesn't make any sense.
So all this to say,
don't keep track of the second to last.
I'm just gonna say right now, unless
you're writing something that specifically
is optimizing for a stack,
for pushing pop, don't do it.
It just makes things way too complicated.
>> Speaker 3: I got a question
related to gets from Jan Heine.
Does the linked list have old and forgets?
>> Brian: Yes it does.
It definitely does.
That is a good observation.
And as Christian was pointing out,
the big O cheat sheat is perfect for
this kind of stuff.
>> Brian: So right now we're doing
array lists, which is this one.
And we're doing singly-linked lists.
As you might imagine doubly-linked
lists are things that point forward and
backwards.
Again, by introducing those backwards
facing pointers, you now have to
constantly worry about making sure that
they point at the right thing, and
it makes everything more complicated.
However, if going backwards and
forward on the list is important to you,
then you might want to do that, so,
>> Brian: Good questions.
Any other questions?
>> Brian: So which one is better?
Inevitably people ask a question,
and just it's a trade off right?
I say it every like ten minutes in
this course, everything's a trade off.
So let's go ahead and
dissect the delete down here.
So let's say, let's call it an index 2,
which is gonna be value c here.
Grab the head which is a, okay loop
through the next right, so you're
gonna use a while loop that keeps going
through until it finds the second index.
And then you're gonna be also keeping
track of what the previous item in
the iteration was and you're just going
to move b's pointer to d and that's it.
And you're gonna make sure
you document the length.
And return the value of the deleted node,
that's it,
that's all you need to do for a delete.
None of this collapsing business.
Okay, so let's check out the exercise
unless anyone has any questions about
this, yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Rob is asking, the cheat
sheet indicates that delete is O of 1,
does that mean that's wrong,
which one is right?
>> Brian: The actual deletion itself once
you have a hold of the node is constant,
right, because you're just moving a
pointer from one thing to another, right.
But you have to do the find, and
I think that's what they're getting at.
>> Brian: The reason why array is O,N,
right,
is cuz you have to shift everything over.
Whereas with single linked list as soon
as you have the thing that you need to
delete then all you have to do
is point it at something else.
>> Brian: Right, so yeah, here we go.
The access, right, so
a delete is a combination of access and
deletion or search.
You can also say search and deletion.
So I think that's more what
they're getting at here.